---
layout: post
title: Hypermethylation of SCTR in colorectal cancer
---

Li D, Zhang L, Fu J, Huang H, Sun S, 1 Zhang D, Zhao L, Onwuka JU, Zhao Y, & Cui B. SCTR hypermethylation is a diagnostic biomarker in colorectal cancer. Cancer Sci. (2020) Dec

# How they used Xena
These authors downloaded breast cancer data from Xena and then ran their analyses.

## [Join the conversation on Twitter about this publication](https://twitter.com/UCSCXena/status/1427689713272463361)

# Paper
[SCTR hypermethylation is a diagnostic biomarker in colorectal cancer.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7734158/)

Diagnostic markers for both colorectal cancer (CRC) and its precursor lesions are lacking. Although aberrant methylation of the secretin receptor (SCTR) gene was observed in CRC, the diagnostic performance has not been evaluated. Therefore, this study aimed to assess and verify the diagnostic value of SCTR methylation of CRC and its precursor lesions through integrating the largest methylation data. The diagnostic performance of SCTR methylation was analyzed in the discovery set from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC methylation data (N = 440), and verified in a large‐scale test set (N = 938) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Targeted bisulfite sequencing analysis was developed and applied to detect the methylation status of SCTR in our independent validation set (N = 374). Our findings revealed that the SCTR gene was frequently hypermethylated at its CpG islands in CRC. In the TCGA discovery set, the diagnostic score was constructed using 4 CpG sites (cg01013590, cg20505223, cg07176264, and cg26009192) and achieved high diagnostic performance (area under the ROC curve [AUC] = 0.964). In the GEO test set, the diagnostic score had robust diagnostic ability to distinguish CRC (AUC = 0.948) and its precursor lesions (AUC = 0.954) from normal samples. Moreover, hypermethylation of the SCTR gene was also found in cell‐free DNA samples collected from CRC patients, but not in those from healthy controls. In the validation set, consistent results were observed using the targeted bisulfite sequencing array. Our study highlights that hypermethylation at CpG islands of the SCTR gene is a potential diagnostic biomarker in CRCs and its precursor lesions.
